Restructure guide to focus on 5 ways to use C++ on web (#91)
NLESC-JCER/cpp2wasm: README.md

}
```

The program can be compiled with

```{.awk #build-cli}
g++ cli/cli-newtonraphson.cpp -o cli/newtonraphson.exe
```

and it can be run with

```{.awk #test-cli}
./cli/newtonraphson.exe
```

It should return the following

```shell
The value of the root is : -1.000000
```

## Web service using Common Gateway Interface

![cgi](images/cgi.svg.png "CGI")

| Pros | Cons |
| --- | --- |

> | :heart: Very few moving parts, just C++ and Apache | :no_entry: Verbose Apache configuration |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :heart: Very few moving parts, just C++ and Apache web server | :no_entry: Complicated Apache web server configuration |
```

> | :heart: Ancient proven technology | :no_entry: Unsuitable for long initialization or calculations |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :heart: Proven technology | :no_entry: Not suitable for long initialization or calculations |
```

The classic way to run programs when accessing a url is to use the Common Gateway Interface (CGI). In the 
[Apache httpd web server](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.4/howto/cgi.html) you can configure a directory as a
`ScriptAlias`, when visiting a file inside that directory the file will be executed. The executable can read the
request body from the `stdin` and the response must be printed to the `stdout`. A response should consist of a
content type such as `application/json` or `text/html`, followed by the content itself.

> For the web service we retrieve and assemble JSON documents using the [nlohmann/json.hpp](https://github.com/nlohmann/json/) library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the web service, we retrieve and assemble JSON documents using the [nlohmann/json.hpp](https://github.com/nlohmann/json/) library.
```

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
```

> We should convert the JSON request body from the `stdin` to get the `epsilon` and `guess` values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We should parse the JSON request body from the `stdin` to get the `epsilon` and `guess` values.
```

```{.cpp file=cgi/cgi-newtonraphson.cpp}
  // this C++ snippet is appended to cgi/cgi-newtonraphson.hpp
  nlohmann::json request(nlohmann::json::parse(std::cin));
  double epsilon = request["epsilon"];
  double guess = request["guess"];
```

The rood can be found with

```{.cpp file=cgi/cgi-newtonraphson.cpp}
  // this C++ snippet is appended to cgi/cgi-newtonraphson.hpp
  rootfinding::NewtonRaphson finder(epsilon);
  double root = finder.solve(guess);
```

> And lastly return a JSON document with the result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And lastly, return a JSON document with the result
```

```{.cpp file=cgi/cgi-newtonraphson.cpp}
  // this C++ snippet is appended to cgi/cgi-newtonraphson.hpp
  nlohmann::json response;
  response["root"] = root;
  std::cout << "Content-type: application/json" << std::endl << std::endl;
  std::cout << response.dump(2) << std::endl;
  return 0;
}
```

This can be compiled with

```{.awk #build-cgi}
g++ -Icgi/deps/ -Icli/ cgi/cgi-newtonraphson.cpp -o cgi/apache2/cgi-bin/newtonraphson
```

> The CGI script can be tested from the command line without using a http request by piping a JSON document with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The CGI script can be tested from the command line
```

/usr/sbin/apache2 -X -d ./cgi/apache2
```

> To test the [CGI script](http://localhost:8080/cgi-bin/newtonraphson) we can not use the web browser, but need to use http client like [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test the [CGI script](http://localhost:8080/cgi-bin/newtonraphson) we can not use a web browser, but need to use http client like [curl](https://curl.haxx.se/).
```

> A web browser uses the [GET http request method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/GET) and `text/html` as content type, but the CGI script requires a [POST http request method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/POST) and JSON string as request body.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Because, a web browser uses the [GET http request method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/GET) and `text/html` as content type, but the CGI script requires a [POST http request method](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods/POST) and JSON string as request body.
```

The curl command with a POST request can be run in another shell with

```shell
curl --request POST \
  --data '{"guess":-20, "epsilon":0.001}' \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  http://localhost:8080/cgi-bin/newtonraphson
```

Should return the following JSON document as a response

```json
{
  "root":-1.0000001181322415
}
```

> Instead of curl we could use any http client in any language to consume the web service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Instead of curl, we could use any http client in any language to consume the web service.
```

> The problem with CGI scripts is when the program does some initialization, you have to wait for it each visit. It is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The problem with CGI scripts is when the program does some initialization, you have to wait for it on each visit. It is
```

better to do the initialization once when the web service is starting up.

## Python web service

![openapi](images/openapi.svg.png "OpenAPI")

| Pros | Cons |
| --- | --- |

> | :heart: Python is great glue language | :no_entry: Pure Python is slower than C++ |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :heart: Python is a very popular language and has a large ecosystem | :no_entry: Pure Python is slower than C++ |
```

> | :heart: Web service discoverable and documented with OpenAPI specification | :no_entry: Exception thrown from C++ has number instead of message   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :heart: Web service is easy to discover and nicely documented with OpenAPI specification | :no_entry: Exception thrown from C++ has number instead of message   |
```

> | :heart: Web service is easy to discover and nicely documented with OpenAPI specification | :no_entry: Exception thrown from C++ has number instead of message   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :heart: Web service is easy to discover and effortlessly documented with OpenAPI specification | :no_entry: Exception thrown from C++ has number instead of message   |
```

> Writing a web service in C++ can be done, but other languages like Python are better equipped. Python has a big

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing a web service in C++ is possible, but other languages like Python are better equipped. Python has a big
```

community making web applications, which resulted in a big ecosystem of web frameworks, template engines, tutorials.

> Python packages can be installed using `pip` from the [Python Package Index](https://pypi.org/). It is customary to work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Python packages can be installed using a package manager (`pip`) from the [Python Package Index](https://pypi.org/). It is customary to work
```

-1.0000001181322415
```

Now that the C++ functions can be called from Python it is time to call the function from a web service.

### OpenAPI web service using connexion

> A web service has a number of paths or urls to which a request can be sent and a response received. The interface can be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A web service has a number of paths or urls to which requests can be sent and a response received. The interface can be
```

contract-first approach allows for both consumer and provider to come to an agreement on the contract and work more or
less independently on implementation. We will use the contract-first approach for our root finding web service example.

To make a web service which adheres to the OpenAPI specification contract, it is possible to generate a skeleton using
the [generator](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator). Each time the contract changes, the generator must be
re-run. The generator uses the Python based web framework [Connexion](https://github.com/zalando/connexion). For the
Python based root finding web service, Connexion was used as the web framework as it maps each path+method combination
in the contract to a Python function and will handle the validation and serialization. The OpenAPI web service can be
tested with [Swagger UI](https://swagger.io/tools/swagger-ui/), which facilitates browsing through the available paths, trying
them out by constructing a request, and showing the curl command which can be used to call the web service. Swagger UI
comes bundled with the Connexion framework.

> OpenAPI uses [JSON schema](https://json-schema.org/) to describe the shape of the request body and responses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenAPI uses [JSON schema](https://json-schema.org/) to describe the structure of the request body and responses.
```

The request body we want to accept is

```json
{
  "epsilon": 0.001,
  "guess": -20
}
```

The JSON schema for the request body is

```{.json #request-schema}
{
  "type": "object",
  "description": "this JSON document is later referred to as <<request-schema>>",
  "properties": {
    "epsilon": {
      "title": "Epsilon",
      "type": "number",
      "minimum": 0
    },
    "guess": {
      "title": "Initial guess",
      "type": "number"
    }
  },
  "required": [
    "epsilon",
    "guess"
  ],
  "additionalProperties": false
}
```

> The response body we want to return is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The response body we want the web service to return is
```

```json
{
  "root": -1.00
}
```

The JSON schema for the response body is

```{.json #response-schema}
{
  "type": "object",
  "description": "this JSON document is later referred to as <<response-schema>>",
  "properties": {
      "root": {
        "title": "Root",
        "type": "number"
      }
  },
  "required": [
      "root"
  ],
  "additionalProperties": false
}
```

> The OpenAPI specification for performing root finding is:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenAPI specification for the web service is:
```

  finder = NewtonRaphson(epsilon)
  root = finder.solve(guess)
  return {'root': root}
```

To provide the `calculate` method as a web service we must install Connexion Python library (with the Swagger UI for
later testing)

```{.awk #pip-connexion}
pip install connexion[swagger-ui]
```

To run the web service we have to to tell Connexion which specification it should expose.

```{.python file=openapi/webservice.py}
# this Python snippet is stored as openapi/webservice.py
import connexion

app = connexion.App(__name__)
app.add_api('openapi.yaml', validate_responses=True)
app.run(port=8080)
```

The web service can be started with

```{.awk #run-webservice}
python openapi/webservice.py
```

We can try out the web service using the Swagger UI at [http://localhost:8080/ui/](http://localhost:8080/ui/), or by
running a ``curl`` command like

```{.awk #test-webservice}
curl --request POST \
  --header "accept: application/json" \
  --header "Content-Type: application/json" \
  --data '{"epsilon":0.001,"guess":-20}' \
  http://localhost:8080/api/newtonraphson
```

## Python web application using Flask

![flask](images/flask.svg.png "Flask")

| Pros | Cons |
| --- | --- |

> | :heart: Use ecosystem to minimize own code | :no_entry: Lots of moving parts: web service + worker + redis queue |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :heart: Minimalist  and modular framework | :no_entry: Needs additional packages for extra functionality |
| :heart: A lot of examples and good documentation | :no_entry: Lots of moving parts: web service + worker + Redis queue |
```

To test we can visit [http://localhost:5001](http://localhost:5001) fill the form and press submit to get the result.

The form should look like

![Flask form](images/flask-form.png "Flask form")

After pressing submit the result should look like

![Flask result](images/flask-result.png "Flask result")

### Long-running tasks with Celery

When performing a long calculation (more than 30 seconds), the end-user requires feedback of the progress. In a normal
request/response cycle, feedback is only returned in the response. To give feedback during the calculation, the
computation must be offloaded to a task queue. In Python, a commonly used task queue is
[celery](http://docs.celeryproject.org/). While the calculation is running on some worker it is possible to have a
progress page which can check in the queue what the progress is of the calculation.

Our Celery powered web application will have 3 pages:

> 1. a page with form and submit button,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. a page with a form and a submit button,
```

Tasks will be run by the Celery worker. The worker can be started with

```{.awk #run-celery-worker}
PYTHONPATH=flask celery worker -A tasks
```

(The PYTHONPATH environment variable is set so the Celery worker can find the `tasks.py` and `newtonraphsonpy.*.so`
files in the `flask/` directory)

To test the web service

1. Go to [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000),

    ![Celery form](images/celery-form.png "Celery form")

2. Submit form,
3. Refresh result page until progress states are replaced with result.

    ![Celery sleep initializing](images/celery-init.png "Celery sleep initializing")

    ![Celery sleep finding](images/celery-finding.png "Celery sleep finding")

    ![Celery result](images/celery-result.png "Celery result")

The redis server can be shut down with

```{.awk #stop-redis}
docker stop some-redis
```

## JavaScript web service

![wasm](images/wasm.svg.png "WebAssembly")

| Pros | Cons |
| --- | --- |

> | :heart: JavaScript is a popular language | :no_entry: OpenAPI spec and JSON schema are sligthly out of sync |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| :heart: JavaScript is a powerful language which runs on many different platforms including mobile devices | :no_entry: OpenAPI spec and JSON schema are slightly out of sync |
```
